---
title: "Eat a Live Frog First Thing in the Morning..."
tags: cruft skills priorities
---
Today we discuss reducing [technical debt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_debt) objectively.  Mark Twain's saying "Eat a live frog first thing in the morning and nothing worse will happen to you the rest of the day," is our approach.

Hopefully your organization automatically collects facts about the assets.
* Hardware vendor and model, even serial #
* Operating System
* Configuration management tags
* Installed packages and their versions
* Software applications installed outside of the native package management system
* Are the services passing checks to determine if they are functional.

That allows tracking bugs and quirks.
* Display software < version 1 has bug A
* Auth software < version 2 is no longer supported and requires several disruptive steps to upgrade
* Auth software < version 3 is no longer supported, upgrade is non-disruptive
* Config management indicates auth software is required for host.  No version information reported.
* Display software at version 4 terminates session when behind a firewall that blocks UDP

Traditional wisdom is to address each problem separately.  The easy fixes are done quickly.  The hard fixes are never completed.  The divergence of system configs and states increases technical debt.

A different approach helps converge on a configuration and provide a dynamically updating todo list.
1. Calculate the tags for each host.
1. Sort the list
 1. Descending count of tags per host (cruft metric)
 1. Descending count of unique tag set (specific cruft)
1. Start with the cruftiest (count of tags) hosts with the same set of ailments
 1. Most divergent hosts addressed first
 1. As the first host is resolved any SOPs will be written so the work can be scaled out to the team.

Caveats:
* Fixing some hosts will be disruptive to the business.  The following allows the risk to be captured and the buck passed.  Ideally do this in the "fact" database.
 * Document the business risk of making the change
 * Document who made the call
 * Document who is impacted
 * Document change that will remove the disruption
 * Set a followup date
  * IE Next fiscal planning cycle so the impacted group can fund support
* Some sets of problems can only be addressed by fork lift upgrade.
 * Document when the upgrade is planned
 * Document who is responsible for the upgrade

