---
title: "Updates"
date: 2018-03-24 20:00
categories: jenkins zfs freebsd flask
---

A few things have happened in the past year.

### Jenkins
* Started knowing nothing about Jenkins
* Worked with a per VM per Jenkins instance deploy model
* Discovered the Jenkins init.rc will not play nice with multiple instances on the same host
* Did initial work moving into Docker and ended up rewriting from scratch using Oracle's Java for a bit.
* Did a lot of build time customer customzation of the instance
* Discovered the magic of switching user back to root and using jenkins/jenkins as a basis
* Discovered [12 factor](https://12factor.net) approach and moved to a standard image and a .env based per customer config.  This was the magic that made it possible to deploy a new Jenkins instance and start training the customer within an hour.
* Now dabbling with a Jenkins pipeline to track upstream (including plugins) and build our production Docker images.

### FreeBSD and Linux ZFS
I shall miss thee FreeBSD.  A new Linux on ZFS machine was build 2017 Sep 09.  Services migrated November 9th. [debian-stretch-zfs-root](https://github.com/cdd-aix/debian-stretch-zfs-root) and [live-build-zfs](https://github.com/cdd-aix/live-build-zfs) made that happen.

### Flask, Vue, and MongoDB
Our summer intern created a lovely JIRA metrics scraper.  I had a crash course on those technologies when we added features to the tool.

### Test Driven Development
[Test-Driven Development with Python](https://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/) began to influence my development approach.  I don't deliver new things faster this way... I don't seem to have as many screwy bugs tho'.

### Abusing docker-compose to Test Dockerfiles
I've had to develop busybox based docker images to capture items like the internal PKI snake oil certificates and their install scripts.  Using docker-compose I could write the tests that the certs installed correctly before I started writing the scripts to install the certs.

### Django, Bootstrap, Datatables
Have moved to frontend Django and using Bootstrap and Datatables to make the presentation prettier.
